---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-11
published: true
labels:
  - E1
---
<h2>Browser History 1</h2>
  WOD 3.1 took me 18 minutes. I pre-handily had a list of "what to do" for me to create the WOD. I researched through the W3 Schools website for any steps I forgot how to code. When I was ready, I started my screencast. I went okay; I had a few hiccups and forgot how to code certain sections. My weakness was that I did not use keyboard shortcuts as efficiently as I hoped to. Overall, this WOD hit my expectations since it was the first WOD out of three.

<h2>Browser History 2</h2>
  This WOD hit me hard. I did my routine procedures of "what to do" and beforehand research. However, my first attempt was horrible. I wanted the logos in line with the text, but I used the wrong code. I thought it was my tags for the paragraph, but after a day passed, I figured out that it was my code choice for inlining. It said to inline, so I did display: inline-block;. After the deadline passed, I was ready to give up. The next day came, and I returned to WOD 3.2. I found float: right;, and everything after that was smooth sailing. I did my second attempt, and it took me 7 minutes. I also fixed my weakness in WOD3.1 and used shortcuts more efficiently. 

<h2>Browser History 3</h2>
  This WOD[3.3] took me about 8 minutes. Again, I did my normal procedures, and everything went well. Had a small hiccup because I forgot something, but it was all okay. 

Overall, I got better as I went through each WOD. My biggest struggle is procrastination, as I submitted WOD3.2 and 3.3 the day after the submission date. Also, coding anxiously close to the deadline is not fun, but I got over it and learned. Next time, I will do everything way earlier. 
